>> Will Sentance: Josh, line one.
What' are we doing?
>> Josh: Declaring
a generator function to create flow
>> Will Sentance: Yup.
Good.
Declaring a special type of function
is magic.
New type of function Josh gives us called
a generator function creates flow.
There it is.
Special type of function.
I've updated my diagramming for it.
[INAUDIBLE] Okay, next line,
not gonna ask Bryan cuz I've
asked him the same question
as well multiple times.
Gonna flip it up.
I have an idea in my head about
what question to ask each person.
It's very interesting, very interesting.
Rick, what's the next lines of codes here
to do?
>> Rick: You define a constant
return next element.
Which is undefined right now.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, good, excellent!
Return next element,
which is gonna be the output of running,
it's gonna be output of
this call to create flow.
What could the output of this be?
Well, presumably,
we're gonna create an excision context.
>> Will Sentance: Probably,
but no, for now,
not in any meaningful sense to us.
So, we're in global, I'm not sure if
I need to keep track of this one,
we don't need to keep track
of the cost that desperately.
We need as much space as possible,
so okay, so return,
return, next element.
It's gonna be the output
of calling create flow.
Now, Ben,
so we're hoping the output return element
is an object with a method called next.
That when I call that it's gonna give
me my first element in my flow of data.
What do you think that's gonna be then?
>> Ben: Four.
>> Will Sentance: We hope it's
gonna be four.
Okay, next time it's gonna be five,
then it's gonna be six.
But how are we gonna get that?
That's the interesting question.
So, create flow does not go inside
create flow's execution context.
Instead, it returns out
a special generator
object with a next function on it.
That when called,
is gonna do something fascinating.
There it is, with next.
As the function.
Okay, that's been stored and
return next element.
So now, return next element
has a next method on it.
Because it was the output
of running create flow.
We've now finished this first,
this call to create flow.
So now our next line of
code says to do what?
It's gotta be only one person.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Abde: Inside.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Abde: Yeah,
we're just declaring it in memory again.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, yeah.
You're getting too complacent
about your full responsibility.
We're declaring what?
>> Ben: Because element one.
>> Will Sentance: Degrade of course at
element one.
Excellent, thank you.
And we're now gonna call the method
on this return next element
object, the next method.
>> Will Sentance: And
what's it gonna do?
>> Will Sentance: Here's what it's
gonna do, people.
You never thought it would happen.
It is gonna,
>> Will Sentance: Execute or
begin execution.
It's gonna open the execution
context of create
flow.
>> Will Sentance: This function on
the object that got returned out
of create flow has an intimate
bond to where it was born at create flow,
that when we call the next,
it's gonna start initiate calling create
flow, the function from which it was born.
It's gonna start calling it.
Now we'll talk in a moment
what that literally means.
What is calling a function?
What is executing code and
how do you keep track of that?
It's not as profound and bizarre and
kind of against the rules
of Java as you might think.
Okay, so when it does that, it's going
into the [INAUDIBLE] To create flow.
That is what it is.
So what's the first thing it does?
Actually, it's a pretty boring function.
There's no memory allocation happening.
What's the first one it hits, Michelle?
>> Michelle: Yield four?
>> Will Sentance: Yield four,
okay, yield is a super powerful
keyword just like a light return
that exits out of the function.
But it's suspending the execution context.
It's not ending it.
What that means and
we'll talk about that in a second.
Again, it's not like it's
sitting there on the core stack.
Kind of it's sort of there.
It does something else.
I wanna make sure we get that clear,
what it actually means to
spend an exclusion context.
But this is a return statement,
essentially.
We are gonna grab that four and
we're gonna yield
it out as the output of our
returnNextElement.next call,
which stimulated create flow to call.
It hit the yield statement inside that
four is gonna be not our output or
create flow, that was create flow's
never gonna give output again directly.
It's only that returnNextElement
took.next, took us in here.
And the yielded result is in the output
of that statement we just
called returnNextElement.next.
Actually, I might do a dotted kind
of line here to show that create
flow's kicked off.
So, this is an output of
returnNextElement.next which is four.
And that's gonna be assigned where,
Blessing?
>> Blessing: To element one?
>> Will Sentance: To element one,
excellent.
There it is in element one.
Beautiful.
Crazy.
I'll tell you this,
we've ended up here with our flow of data,
the first element for it, very nice.
Right now we're gonna see that it
doesn't feel that much different.
We've got four, five, six.
But in a moment we're gonna see,
we can dynamically control what
our flow of data comprises.
Cuz it's just code now, that we can
set what our data flow comprises.
All right, so, next line of code, Alec.
We're back out to, I should say, sorry.
We've paused.
I don't even like the term pause.
But we've suspended, we've put on
hold the execution context here.
Well, that actually means, I might as well
say now, what that actually means is,
no, I'm gonna show you on the next slide.
So, for now, okay, Alec, we come back out
to our global execution context where
we hit the declaration of what?
>> Alec: Element
two.
>> Will Sentance: Yep.
Which is gonna be?
>> Alec: The output of
returnNextElement.next?
>> Will Sentance: Correct, but
we have total output, right?
The output of returnNextElement.next
is not gonna be the conventional sense.
It's gonna take us back and
create the floor,
whatever yield's next is gonna be output
of returnNextElement.next, exactly.
So let's do it, returnNextElement.next,
which will take
us in here where we hit what line, Alec?
>> Alec: Yield five.
>> Will Sentance: Yield five, and
that five is then gonna be our output of
this statement, actually this expression,
returnNextElement.next which has being
called, which is therefore five.
And we saw that where, Alec?
>> Alec: Element two?
>> Will Sentance: Element two, look
at this, our flow is coming It's
really nice, our flow is forming.
We call return at element
on next one more time.
It's gonna give us out six.
We return it one more time,
it's gonna give us out undefined.
So, first thing to say, we now get to
produce our flows using a function.
What that allows us to do,
is dynamically set
what data flows out to us when we turn on
the tap and give ourselves a next element.
When we turn on the tap and
give ourselves a next element.
We can dynamically set that with code.
We can even, we'll be able to see
down here, set it from outside.
We can sort of return back and
get the execution context with new data
to determine what the next result
of our flow of data's gonna be.
The next element from our flows.
We get complete control over what
the next element in our flow is gonna be.
Unlike when we built them
using a baseline array,
four-five-six, that was set, we couldn't
control that, we couldn't have logic
determining what the later elements would
be, that was just, it was what it was.
Now we're gonna get to control what
the later elements are gonna be.
It's going to require some really
precise thinking to follow though,
because it has a behavior.
That does feel weird.
It's actually not crazy but
it does feel weird.
Okay.
So we're going to clear this code and
go through this line by
line what we have up here.
And then we'll do thumbs.
I don't think there's much point in doing
thumbs before we get this dynamic piece
out on the table.
All right, so.
>> Will Sentance: Okay,
line one, Josh, what are we doing?
>> Josh: This one, declaring
a generator function of createFlow.
>> Will Sentance: Yep, well done.
Line two, what are we doing, Paul?
>> Paul: We are creating
a new constant called returnNextElement
and setting it to the invocation
of the createFlow generator.
>> Will Sentance: That's not a crazy thing
to say.
I still don't even love
saying the invocation.
It still suggest that returnNextElement's
value is an invocation.
It's not.
It's the return value of an invocation.
That still makes people think when
they go to return its element,
I better go back and look and
see createFlow's what's stored there.
createFlow is never stored anywhere.
createFlow's invocation, createFlow
parens, is never stored anywhere.
If createFlow is invoked,
we do the work of it,
whatever comes out,
that's what's stored in returnNextElement.
Just to be really, really clear on it.
So it's undefined for now,
let's go do some work.
Let's do that,
>> Will Sentance: Work.
ReturnNextElement is the output
of the call to createFlow,
which Ben, do you remember
what we said this returns out,
kinda surprisingly?
>> Ben: An object
with the property of next.
>> Will Sentance: Yes,
notice the generator,
notice a generator object, exactly.
A generator object with a next property,
which is a method of function on it.
Good.
All right next line, Ben.
>> Ben: We're
going to declare constant element1.
>> Will Sentance: Let me just get my
function, my object with a function
wrapped on it, there it is.
Yep, declare element one,
>> Will Sentance: Okay.
>> Ben: Undefined returned value,
return next element.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
which is a weird old return value,
it's gonna be very surprising.
So element1 is the output
of returnNextElement.next,
the call which is just this
function here being called.
The one which we returned out
on this object, and store it and
return next element.
This, though, is a command,
to begin the execution context of what,
Ben?
>> Ben: createFlow.
>> Will Sentance: The createFlow execution
context.
>> Will Sentance: Okay, so we open it,
>> Will Sentance: And it has a memory.
There it is.
And inside of it we go,
and what's the first thing
that it says to do inside, Brian?
>> Brian: You'd clear a constant
named num and assign it a value of 10.
>> Will Sentance: Great, there it is.
Okay, next line says to do what, Brian?
Left hand side first.
>> Brian: Create a new constant called
newNum.
>> Will Sentance: Install that in memory
initially.
Well we're gonna see.
So, newNum is going to be the evaluated
result of the right hand side.
That's always the case.
If the right hand side is a number,
a value, we just saw the number there.
That right hand side ain't a number,
it ain't a value, it's actually a command.
It's actually a super powerful command so
yield num which is 10.
It's actually a super powerful command.
It's a command that's going
to throw us straight out,
it's gonna throw us straight out,
this value,
a straight out of this execution context.
And Ben is going to have that 10,
that output,
be result of what?
>> Ben: NewNum which
will be-
>> Will Sentance: No.
>> Ben: No?
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, exactly we
declared newNum but yield is so powerful.
The right hand side is so
powerful cuz it's a statement to
just throw you out of the function.
We're never gonna get a chance
to store something in newNum.
It's undefined for now,
the right hand side
we was with you declared the left hand
side newNum, and the right hand side,
you then want to get to a value that
you can install on the left hand side.
For the right hand side,
we don't have a choice to give it a value,
to evaluate to do a value,
because it's like seeing return 10.
It's like a super powerful keyword that
just kicks out this ten as our output
into the returnNextElement.next.
So what does
returnNextElement.next evaluate
to, Ben?
>> Ben: 10.
>> Will Sentance: To 10, exactly.
Which gets stored in where then?
>> Ben: element1.
>> Will Sentance: element1, and
solution context newNum
never got assigned anything.
This has been paused just before this
right hand side could evaluate to a value
and be stored in newNum.
So in our execution context
newNum is still undefined.
>> Will Sentance: Let's hope we get
a chance to assign it newNum something.
Let's hope.
>> Will Sentance: Okay we're back out to
global execution context.
This execution context is paused.
We'll talk about what
pause means in a moment.
I don't like the term pause, that's
definitely a feat for what actually is.
Well it's not.
But what does it mean to pause a function?
What is an execution context.
To just give you a preview, execution
context is just state, memory, and
what line am I currently on,
in what position?
That's all it is.
And the thread is actually in it,
as opposed to not in it.
The function line has
control over the thread.
Other than that, that's all it is,
position in the code, and a memory.
That ain't that hard to save in
the next function, or sorry,
it's attached to the next function.
That's all a paused execution context is.
It's the closure, the backpack, but
now also the position in
the function's execution.
So we can come back and continue running.
That's all we're gonna say, we'll talk
about them in more detail in a moment.
But for now, we're back out to global
where Alec, what's our next line?
This is our previous global line,
what's our next line of global code?
>> Alec: Define
element two.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent,
give me a second, element two is going
to be a returned value of calling return
next element.next I'm parsing in two.
Okay, what's this gonna do which execution
context it's gonna take us back in to,
Alex?
>> Alec: Into the create flow [INAUDIBLE].
>> Will Sentance: Yeah exactly and
it goes back in.
Okay, where do we leave?
We leave, we left with [LAUGH],
we left messing with, we left with,
we left with our, we left being
rapidly kicked out of our function.
[SOUND] Being kicked out and never
getting a chance to try anything new now.
When we come back in,
whatever we parse in as our input
to next that takes us back
into create flow is going to
be the evaluated result of this
last right-hand side work.
It is gonna be our evaluated
result of this statement here.
This is gonna allow us to pass data
back into our execution context,
almost like an argument back into it.
And it's gonna be the evaluation
result of this yield
expression.
>> Will Sentance: So
the yield 10 It's it did what it's job
before it was to return out the ten.
And then when we come back into the
function, it didn't get a chance because
this yield was so powerful it threw
the ten out into the last call to next and
[INAUDIBLE] element one.
When we come back in, that expression
evaluates through it becomes
two JavaScripts inside of here,
whatever we pass in as the input.
And that's the very nature of the design
of these generator functions.
That when you go back into them,
you get to insert data back into their
local execution context as the evaluated
result of the previous yield expression,
the previous yield statement.
That's not a thing which
you can store in new num.
But what we pass back into number two,
which replaces that piece,
is a thing we just throw a new num.
So Abde, what gets sorted new num?
>> Abde: Two.
>> Will Sentance: Two, exactly.
All right, and what's our next
line of code say to do then,
yield five plus what, Abde?
>> Abde: Newnum
which is two.
>> Will Sentance: 2,
which is to say yield 7 and
where is that 7 gonna be thrown out to?
>> Abde: Element
2.
>> Will Sentance: Exactly,
is the output of the next call is the 7
and that's gonna be stored in element 2.
Well done, Abdi, excellent.
Look how much dynamic control we have
over our function that gives us our
element of our flow of data.
And we say there's nothing
like thinking about our data
as flows because look how
much control it now gives us.
Now do you see how beautiful
it is to have control over
to think about data as flows of values,
flows of elements?
Because we can literally control
dynamically what the next element
of that flow will be.
It's a paradigm shift in how we
think about designing our code.
Okay we would run it again.
What would we, Abde, if we were
run return nextelement.next again,
would we have in our element three?
>> Abde: We would have,-
>> Will Sentance: We did 5 + 2 for
the previous one, what's the next one,
Brian?
>> Brian: 6.
>> Will Sentance: 6, excellent, exactly,
that very one on the bottom there you.
We now have flows of data that we can
switch on, when we call the next function,
get the next element.
Switch on, call the next function,
get the next element with flows of data
that we get to control every
element of them with actual code.
It's very beautiful, all right.
We got our thumbs on this, and
the moment we are gonna discover that
this pseudo pausing,
let's just say how it's therefore stored.
We are therefore storing on the next call,
our next function,
we're storing our execution context before
we return back into it, to resume it.
It's not being,
this is not staying on the I think.
It doesn't make sense to, but we hold
onto it with two pieces of information.
One, our backpack of data.
Our backpack of data with num is 10,
new num is 2,
plus our position in the function,
in the generator function,
the line number and the positioning code.
Which is, I think is stored squared
bracket, square bracket, generator.
It's called square root disorders.
>> Will Sentance: Square bracket,
square bracket, generator location,
square bracket,
square bracket, and then whatever line is.
Wait, suppose we were here,
>> Will Sentance: Line four,
and that's all execution context
is when it's not running.
When you start running it, you take
the thread to let that line fall and
you make sure that's your local data.
So we start it.
Put it on the column for
that information, but that's all it is.
So, what we're really doing when we pause,
is we're saying hold
on to the information.
In the next, attached to the next that
we then gonna go back to that we need to
then be able to go back to and
continue running that function.
And continue referencing that
state locally that data locally.
That's all it is, all right people?
And then the next time we come
out it was at line five and
local data's changed slightly.
Okay beautiful.